Add Documentation for the CLI mode (#19)
wso2-extensions/identity-tools-cli: README.md

# IAM-CTL

The IAM-CTL is a tool that can be used to manage WSO2 Identity Server configurations from the command line. It is written in Go and uses the WSO2 Identity Server management REST APIs to manage configurations.

### Pre-Requisites

> * WSO2 Identity Server 6.1.0 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to [setup](https://is.docs.wso2.com/en/6.0.0/get-started/sample-use-cases/set-up/) the WSO2 Identity Server 6.1.0.
```

> ### How to run the tool 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Run the tool
```

1. Download the latest release binary file from [Releases](https://github.com/wso2-extensions/identity-tools-cli/releases)
 based on your Operating System.

> 2. Extract the tar or zip file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Extract the `tar` or `zip` file.
```

Reviewer: or we can also use the following

2. Extract the downloaded archive file.

> Here onwards the extracted directory path is referred as ```<IAM-CTL-PATH>```.

Reviewer: Indent this text, so that it is shown as a text under point 2

# IAM-CTL

The IAM-CTL is a tool that can be used to manage WSO2 Identity Server configurations from the command line. It is written in Go and uses the WSO2 Identity Server management REST APIs to manage configurations.

### Pre-Requisites
* WSO2 Identity Server 6.1.0 

### How to run the tool 

1. Download the latest release binary file from [Releases](https://github.com/wso2-extensions/identity-tools-cli/releases)
 based on your Operating System.
2. Extract the tar or zip file.

> Here onwards the extracted directory path is referred as ```<IAM-CTL-PATH>```.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here onwards, the extracted directory path is referred to as `<IAM-CTL-PATH>`.
```

> 3. Open a terminal and create an alias for the IAM-CTL executable file using following command according to your platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Open a terminal and create an alias for the `IAM-CTL` executable file using the following command according to your platform.
```

> * linux/mac:

Reviewer: Indent

> # IAM-CTL

Reviewer 2: What does CTL stand for? 
Couldn't find a generic explanation for it on the internet.

Reviewer 2: Some  general comments:

- If this is specific to WSO2 IS, use `WSO2 IS or WSO2 Identity Server` instead of `Identity Server`. If we are referring to any identity server, use sentence case for `identity server`.
- In procedures, make sure the alignment is correct.
- Do not have two consecutive headings without any text in between.
- Use sentence case for all headings

Author: CTL should stand for Controller - as in `kubectl` for kubernetes cli tool

> The IAM-CTL is a tool that can be used to manage WSO2 Identity Server configurations from the command line. It is written in Go and uses the WSO2 Identity Server management REST APIs to manage configurations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
IAM-CTL is a tool that can manage WSO2 Identity Server configurations from the command line. It is written in [GO](https://go.dev/) and uses the management REST APIs of WSO2 Identity Server to manage configurations.
```

> ### Pre-Requisites

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Prerequisites
```

> You need to [setup](https://is.docs.wso2.com/en/6.0.0/get-started/sample-use-cases/set-up/) the WSO2 Identity Server 6.1.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You need to [setup](https://is.docs.wso2.com/en/6.0.0/get-started/sample-use-cases/set-up/) WSO2 Identity Server 6.1.0.
```

### Run the tool

> 1. Download the latest release binary file from [Releases](https://github.com/wso2-extensions/identity-tools-cli/releases)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Download the latest binary file from [Releases](https://github.com/wso2-extensions/identity-tools-cli/releases).
```

 based on your Operating System.

2. Extract the `tar` or `zip` file.

    Here onwards, the extracted directory path is referred to as `<IAM-CTL-PATH>`.

> 3. Open a terminal and create an alias for the `IAM-CTL` executable file using the following command according to your platform.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Open a terminal and create an alias for the `IAM-CTL` executable file using one of the following commands (depending on your platform):
```

   * linux/mac:
 
       ```
       alias iamctl="<IAM-CTL-PATH>/bin/iamctl" 
       ```

   * windows

       ```
       doskey iamctl=<IAM-CTL-PATH>/bin/iamctl.exe $*
       ```
 
4. Run the tool using the following command to get the basic details.
    ```
    iamctl -h
    ```

> 5. Start the IS server and [create an application](https://is.docs.wso2.com/en/6.1.0/guides/applications/register-sp) with **Management Application** enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Start WSO2 IS and [create an application](https://is.docs.wso2.com/en/6.1.0/guides/applications/register-sp) with **Management Application** enabled.
```

> 6. Configure Oauth inbound authentication configuration with a dummy callback URL and make note of the client ID and client secret.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Update the Oauth inbound authentication configuration with a dummy callback URL and take note of the client ID and client secret.
```

The IAM CTL can be used in two basic modes.

> ## CLI Mode

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## CLI mode
```

> The CLI mode can be used to handle bulk configurations in the target environment. This can be used to propagate resources across multiple environments, deploy new configurations to target environments and will act as a backup of each environment's configurations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The CLI mode can be used to handle bulk configurations in the target environment. This can be used to propagate resources across multiple environments, deploy new configurations to target environments, and act as a backup of each environment's configurations.
```

> This mode consists of the exportAll and importAll commands which can be used to export and import all configurations of the supported resource types from or to a target environment. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This mode consists of the `exportAll` and `importAll` commands that can be used to export and import all configurations of the supported resource types from or to a target environment. 
```

> Currently, supported resource types are: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, the supported resource types are: 
```

* Applications
* Identity Providers

### Running the tool in the CLI mode

> The following steps will provide the basic steps to run the tool in the simplest way. Find more comprehensive details about the commands used in the CLI mode [here](docs/cli-mode.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following explains the basic steps for running the tool in the simplest way. Find more comprehensive details about the commands used in the CLI mode [here](docs/cli-mode.md).
```

> #### Tool Initialization

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Tool initialization
```

The tool should be initialized with the server details of the environment it is run against.

> 1. Create a new folder and open a terminal inside it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a new folder and navigate to it from your terminal.
```

2. Run the following command to create the configuration files needed to initialize the tool.
    ```
    iamctl setupCLI
    ```

> 3. A new folder named ```configs``` will be created with a ```env``` folder inside it, having 2 configuration files: ```serverConfig.json``` and ```toolConfig.json```.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. A new folder named ```configs``` will be created with an ```env``` folder inside it. The `env` folder contains two configuration files: ```serverConfig.json``` and ```toolConfig.json```.
```

> > **Note:** If you have multiple environments, get a copy of the ```env``` folder and rename it according to the environments you have. For example, if you have 2 environments: dev and prod, have 2 separate config folders as ```dev``` and ```prod```. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** If you have multiple environments, get a copy of the ```env``` folder and rename it according to the environments you have. For example, if you have two environments: dev and prod, have two separate config folders as ```dev``` and ```prod```. 
```

> 4. Open the ```serverConfig.json``` file and provide the IS server details and client ID/secret of the app you created earlier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Open the ```serverConfig.json``` file and provide the WSO2 IS details and client ID/secret of the app you created earlier.
```

Example configurations:

    ```
    "SERVER_URL" : "https://localhost:9443",
    "CLIENT-ID" : "********",
    "CLIENT-SECRET" : "********",
    "TENANT-DOMAIN" : "carbon.super"
    ```

#### Export
Run the following command to export all supported resource configurations from the target environment to the current directory.
```
iamctl exportAll -c ./configs/env
```

> A set of new folders will be created, named after each resource type, with exported yaml files for each available resource in the IS server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A new set of folders are created, which are named after each resource type, with exported yaml files for each available resource in WSO2 IS.
```

#### Import
Run the following command to import all supported resource configurations from the current directory to the target environment.
```
iamctl importAll -c ./configs/env
```

> All resources available inside each resource type folder in the current directory will be imported to the IS server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All resources available inside each resource type folder in the current directory will be imported to WSO2 IS.
```

## Interactive Mode

> The interactive mode can be used to handle application configurations in an interactive manner. This can be used to add, list, export and import applications in the target environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The interactive mode can be used to handle application configurations in an interactive manner. This can be used to add, list, export, and import applications in the target environment.
```

> Note: This mode does not provide support for bulk resource export or import.

> ### Running the tool in the interactive mode

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Run the tool in interactive mode

See the topics given below to run the tool in interactive mode.
```

#### Tool Initialization

> 1. Run the following command to initialize the tool by providing the Identity server details and client ID/secret of the app you created earlier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Run the following command to initialize the tool by providing details of WSO2 IS and the client ID/secret of the app you created earlier.
```

 |___| /_/   \_\ |_|  |_|          \____|   |_|   |_____|
      
? Enter IAM URL [<schema>://<host>]: https://localhost:9443                                                   
? Enter clientID: *******
? Enter clientSecret: *******
? Enter Tenant domain: carbon.super
```
2. Run the following command to provide admin user credentials.
```
iamctl serverConfiguration
```
```
~$ iamctl serverConfiguration
? Enter IAM URL [<schema>://<host>]: https://localhost:9443
? Enter Username: admin
? Enter Password: admin
```

### Create new applications and list existing applications interactively
Run the following command to get the options available for applications.
```
iamctl application
```
```
$ iamctl application                                                      
? Select the option to move on:  [Use arrows to move, type to filter]
> Add application
  Get List
  Exit
```

> * To add application, select ```Add application``` option and proceed by providing the application details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* To add an application, select ```Add application``` and proceed by providing the application details.
```

> * To view list of applications, select ```Get List``` option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* To view the list of applications, select ```Get List```.
```

> ### Application related commands

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Application-related commands
```

> After initializing the tool, the following commands can be used to add, list, export and import applications in the target environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After initializing the tool, the following commands can be used to add, list, export, and import applications in the target environment.
```
